Date: 01-01-2000
Title: Alva Dent De Crolles 97
Type: wiki


here is alvas account of the dent de crolle 1997

jim





-

Dent De Crolle - Easter Tour 1997

By Alva Gosson

Trip participants:

Alva Gosson, Jim Evans, Iain McKenna (The Bachelors)

Mark Evans, Jackie Wiersma, Kathryn Atherton, Paul Wilcox, (The Couples)

Emmanualle, Jocaster, Kylie, Natasha, Flossy â€¦.. etc (the Tackle bags)

A pilgrimage to the roots of Caving and of ICCC.

Begluckt Darf Nun Dich (Pigrims Chorus)

While the Christian world was remembering its spiritual origins this
Easter the Caving Club took a pilgrimage to its own birth place, the
Dent de Crolles in Chartreuse. It was the inspiration for Petzl and
Chevalier's development of modern vertical caving back in the late 1930s
and our clubs first foreign venture in 1962; our last visit was in 1990.
This year we repeated its two most classic trips the Trou de Glaz to
Grotte d'Annette Bouchecourt, and Trou de Glaz to Grotte de Guire Mort
traverses.

Composed of labarynthine passages at three levels the cave looks
daunting on the survey and has a reputation for ensnaring the unwary,
fitting my memories from 1990. Our first concern though was securing a
knowledge of the exits positioned high on the faces of the dentine
monolith. The late melting of snow this year meant that the road from St
Hugues to the Col de Coq, at the foot of the mountain, was impassable
and from here the walk to the Trou de Glaz involved traversing several
hundred meters of steep snow - less than ideal for the average caver
kitted in a toboggan. Contrary to advice from the local tourist centre
we pursued our goal. In addition to caving during the week Katheryn and
Iain spent two days climbing, and most of the rest of the time was spent
in the kitchen of our homely gite in the service of our stomachs.

By Easter Monday we were ready to rig the Trou de Glaz to the
insignificant junction joining Guire Mort to Annette. Iain, Jim and I,
the bachelors, using crampons and ice axes hiked to the entrance around
the em-pass to the col de Coq. Entering the large slot over an obscuring
bank of snow, the cave's naming became evident. An ice flow built from a
small central waterfall sheeted the floor and from the walls and roof
hung a series of huge glistening icicle groups. At the limits of
daylight a translucent parade of ice stalagmites stood in rank and file
across the grand East passage their heads bowing into the cave
(indicating an inflow of air in winter which reverses in summer), the
ices last stand against that hidden realm which knows no winter. Beyond
this we passed East, rigging the three pitches and traversing onto the
Annette level stopping after three hours at the Puits Fernand (named by
Fernand Petzl). Mark, Jackie, Paul, and Katheryn, the couples, reccied
the crawling Guire Mort entrance to the first pitch, Pierre (named by
Pierre Chevalier).

After driving the kit around on Tuesday via Grenoble and reccying the
Annette exit came the main assult on Wednesday. Taking no chances this
year we equipped ourselves with compasses and photocopies of the survey.
Mark, Paul, Katheryn, the couples minus Jackie put off by Tuesdays trip,
undertook the traverse to Annette. The bachelors took Guire Mort. In
1990 the former took 10 hours the latter some 12 hours. Both trips were
washed aground in unsettling periods of disorientation.

Annette starts off large and high for half its length before dropping
into large passages progressively more broken up by bolder-chokes.
Things to avoid when travelling in this direction are firstly a hidden
traverse, the lower level leading to a sump and a pile of minotaur bones
recorded in the original exploration. The second an odd looped figure
eight passage which drops you back before you went wrong, and where the
eventual way on is back down under a higher crawl. These problems are
not present in reverse (the bachelors and Jackie derigging on Friday)
but the Diaclase Annette, a vertical crack running perpendicular to the
passage, is easy to overshoot.

The Guire Mort passed with even less hitch. On the pitch after the
starting 45m drop we decided that rumours that the cave was rigged were
true and we invited Emmanuelle and Jocasta on a through trip. Meanders
gave way to the phreatic Galleries des Champignons with bulbous calcite
formations on the floor which took us round to the north and toward our
destination. In three hours we arrived at the Cascade Rocheuse the half
way stage and it dawned on us that this was not the trip it had been in
1990. The curving rope of the Puits Bananes led off to the Galleries des
Tritons with its floor channel and then the Galleries sans Nom. The way
on then takes a surprise turn into an immediately less grand side
passage, before continuing to where we were lost in 1990. A small floor
collapse has opened up this way, but never-the-less with good map,
compass, route markings (red and white stripped tape here, red paint
spots in Annette) and experience, route finding in general had been
easy. The following crawl led us to a traverse around the impressive
Puits Isabelle and then rapidly to the Puits Pierre and the final crawl.
We were through in just 6 hours.

Walking down the cavernous passage to the Guire Mort resurgence and
wading through its waters, our carbides running out of rock on which to
glow, we were met by a clear early evening sky holding high above the
mountain treeline a comet; the astrological symbol of change reminding
us that the club has grown and moved on, and the Dent de Crolles, while
remembered as it was in our Petzl equipment, is now different from how
it had been for the less experienced club in 1990, to the newly founded
club in 1962 and to the caving world in 1940. The Dent de Crolles, a
striking parallel in every respect to Migovec, now a monument to its
spirit reborn and living once again in Slovenia.
