Date: 01-01-2000
Title: PersonalKitColm2003
Type: wiki


Personal Equipment for Slovenia Expedition. This is a short list of
personal items to bring to Slovenia: Tents, stoves, eating stuff etc is
provided by the club Up the hill Can get cold at night, and sometimes
rains a lot, so best bring warm clothes. Above Ground: Good boots
(fabric are best) Socks Sandals (optional) Fleece trousers or equivalent
T-shirts Shorts Underwear (not too much) Fleece top or equivalent Hat
Gloves Waterproof jacket Waterproof trousers (optional) Very, very warm
down jacket (highly recommended)

Miscellaneous: Sleeping bag Very, very comfy thermarest or equivalent
shite foam thingy. Walkman, tapes, batteries Water bottle Diary & pen
Camera Books Sunglasses for posers Swiss army knife

Wash-kit (top) Toothbrush Toothpaste Spare specs for blind people (or
disposable contacts) Feminine hygiene whatsits Footpowder (if your name
begins with J) Medicines for sick people Underground Furry Oversuit
Wellies Wetsocks/cave socks Kneepads Headover Survival bag Thermals
Personal mini-bag Gloves

SRT equipment Harness Cowstails & krabs Footloop & screwgate krab &
maillon Hand jammer Chest jammer & carbine hook Chest harness Descender
& krab Breaking krab Prussik loops or spare jammer (do you know how to
use them?)

Lighting Helmet Carbide headset Back-up light Battery holder Batteries
Spare bulbs Carbide generator Krab

Down the Hill

Clothes Clean trousers Clean t-shirt Trainers Socks

Wash-kit (bottom) Shaving kit Soap Face cloth Shampoo Towel

Miscellaneous Money (I think the cash machine in Tolmin now works with
foreign cards)







Imperial College Caving Club Wiki /
[Main]( /
PersonalKitColm2003





[Edit](PersonalKitColm2003?action=edit)
-
[History](PersonalKitColm2003?action=diff)
-
[Print](PersonalKitColm2003?action=print)
- [Recent
Changes](RecentChanges)
-
[Search](https://union.ic.ac.uk/rcc/caving/old/wiki/edit.php?n=Site.Search)





Page last modified on January 01, 2008, at 03:06 PM
